From rwatollenaar at gmail.com  Sun Sep  7 12:23:49 2008
From: rwatollenaar at gmail.com (Roland Tollenaar)
Date: Sun, 07 Sep 2008 12:23:49 +0200
Subject: [Ethercatmaster-users] EML and ethercat
Message-ID: <48C3ABB5.8070706@gmail.com>

Hello,

looking into the (non-realtime) port to windows, I am just trying to 
establish what the basic processes are that EML handels.

Using the specs on the one hand and the code on the other, I come to 
roughly the following:

1-While slaves are in the init state, EML reads out some information of 
the slave such as Fixed station address (0x0010) using APRD

2-Then the EML master writes the FMMU settings using APWR

3-Then EML writes the SyncManager settings using APWR

4-Subsequenctly the slaves are set to Preoperational state using APWR

5-The sleves are set into Operational state using APWR

6-txandrx frames are sent using LRW

Can anyone confirm that this is correct or correct me where I am missing 
something?

Kind regards,

Roland.



From klaas.gadeyne at fmtc.be  Tue Sep 16 09:27:14 2008
From: klaas.gadeyne at fmtc.be (Klaas Gadeyne)
Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2008 09:27:14 +0200 (CEST)
Subject: [Ethercatmaster-users] [ANNOUNCE] EML will be temporarily
	unavailable
Message-ID: <alpine.DEB.1.10.0809121815190.3226@ampere.labo01.fmtc.be>

In 2006, The Flanders' Mechatronics Technology Centre (FMTC) made an
implementation of the EtherCAT master protocol (further on this
implementation is reffered to as EML).  FMTC, copyright holder of EML,
intended to release this software as open source software under the
GPL or LGPL license.  Since the EtherCAT technology is protected by
patents, FMTC contacted Beckhoff Automation before releasing the
source code as open source software.

Beckhoff was willing to license the EtherCAT technology and trade name
free of charge to FMTC, however they were also concerned to keep the
"EtherCAT Masters" in the market using the tradename "EtherCAT" and
not being fully compatible any longer with the latest version of
EtherCAT specification and technology down to a minimum number.  The
(L)GPL does not offer a mechanism for such a protection, and therefore
an extra license agreement (EtherCAT Master License Agreement),
proposed by Beckhoff, was added to the (L)GPL.  The EtherCAT Master
License Agreement is a peer-to-peer license between the user of EML
(Licensee) and Beckhoff and assures that the right to use EtherCAT
Technology is granted and comes free of charge under condition of
compatibility of product made by Licensee.

Recently, FMTC has been informed by Beckhoff that there is a possible
conflict between statements in the EtherCAT Master License Agreement
and the (L)GPL.

Until this situation has been fully cleared out:
- FMTC will remove the EML sources from the public server at
   <http://ethercatmaster.berlios.de>
- FMTC advises current EML users to contact Beckhoff before continuing
   development based on EML.

We are actively working on a new license that will solve the issue
and hope the situation is cleared out quickly.  FMTC's (and
Beckhoff's) objectives remain the same as in 2006, and therefore FMTC
has no intention to take the EML sources away permanently.

Best regards,

Klaas Gadeyne


